#
1. Abstract
The goal is to realize the face recognition by using Raspberry Pi. Therefore, by using Open Source Computer Vision Library(Opencv), it is possible to build a human facial recognition on a Raspberry Pi. Pipeline, parallelism, hardware update and face++ are used to process data. The core of realizing human facial recognition is using Eignfaces Algorithms. As a result, we implement the idea of face recognition by using Raspberry.
2. Introduction
As an effective computer application, Face recognition system has been widely applied to variety of fields from entrance guard, electronic commerce to criminal investigation. It compared certain facial characters from a substantial database to verify a user from a video, a digital image or a camera. With the development of embedded technology and feature-based recognition algorithms, now it is possible to build out a face recognition system on a Raspberry PI with Open Source Computer Vision Library(Opencv) that provides universal algorithms to actualize picture processing and computer vision, Besides, Raspberry pi should connect to a dedicated camera as an input of face recognition system. By doing so, a simple assemble computer is ready to recognize a user. However, as resources of Raspberry Pi are relatively constrained than advanced laptops or severs, to improve the performance, there are many useful approaches, such as distributed system that is a software system that located on network allocating general physical and logical resources from many computers to process passing massages, and pipeline, parallelism, hardware update, face++ that is an open resource API to process graph remotely.
3. Problem definition
The main problem of our project is to realize the face recognition by using the Raspberry Pi. In order to make the process of face recognition more stable and reliable, there will be two sub- problems remain solving. Raspberry Pi will be used as the data processing center and a camera as the image acquisition unit. The architecture of the system which determine how to put the Raspberry Pi and camera together should be figured out. Another thing should be taken into consideration is that the Raspberry Pi will surely limit the performance of the face recognition algorithm. So performance improvement of the algorithm is also reasonable.
4. Related work
A. Asaduzzaman(2015) used a kind of liveness monitoring technique to help facial recognition and an eye blinking password system was used to liveness detection of the users. They used 15 valid users and 100 user appearance in the experiment.(pp. 133-136) [1] Jun-Horng Chen(2013) compared and categorized the approaches in the database and realized the effectiveness of face recognition.(pp. 92 - 93) [2] Shun-Fang Wang(2011) used an bootstrap resampling method to calculate the mean of data. Then they enhanced the mean centering process by using the data standardization. As the result, their method was better than their traditional PCA in facial recognition.(pp. 2618 - 2622) [3] Travis R. Gault(2011) reduced the lower face yields and improved the human facial recognition.(pp. 6445 - 6449) [4] Peiyao Li(2010) evaluated seven types of facial data: fear, anger, happiness, disgust, surprise, sadness and neutral. They compared several existing techniques for facial recognition on the same database.(pp. 3732 - 3735) [5]
Reference
 [1] A. Asaduzzaman, A. Mummidi, Muhammad F. Mridha, Fadi N. Sibai.
Improving facial recognition accuracy by applying liveness monitoring technique. IEEE Conference Publications. pp. 133 – 136. 2015
[2] Jun-Horng Chen, Chin-Lun Lai, Chih-Hong Chu, Jing-Ying Hsu. Improving accuracy
of facial recognition systems for distant targets. IEEE Conference Publications. pp. 92 - 93. 2013 [3] Shun-Fang Wang, Fu-Lai Ku, Huai-Xiong Zhang. Improved PCA facial recognition with bootstrap and data standardization in small sample case. IEEE Conference Publications. pp. 2618 - 2622. 2011
[4] Travis R. Gault, Eslam Mostafa, Ahmed A. Farag, Aly A. Farag. Less is more: Cropping
to improve facial recognition with thermal images. IEEE Conference Publications. pp.
6445 - 6449. 2011
[5] Peiyao Li, Son Lam Phung, Abdesselam Bouzerdoum, Fok Hing Chi Tivive.
Improved Facial Expression Recognition with Trainable 2-D Filters and Support Vector Machines. IEEE Conference Publications. pp. 3732 - 3735. 2010
5. Solution
The system could be divided into two parts: the hardware part and the software part. The hardware part will include at least one Raspberry Pi and one Raspberry Pi camera. The Raspberry Pi should have the access to the internet to setup the environment and software. The first step of the project is connecting these two parts and debugging. An open source library OpenCV could be used to process the image which taken by the Raspberry Pi camera.
There are two main ways could be used to ensure the performance. One of them is to enhance the ability of a single Raspberry Pi by using several Raspberry Pis and establish a distributed system or using pipelines to separate the pressure of data processing to several other Pis. This kind of solution will need more Pis and it is hard to tell if it could surely improve the performance because the Hadoop system is a really big system.
The other solution is to use some http apis. There are many free apis which are dealing with the image processing procedure. Taking face++ as an example, this kind of http api provides several different factions include image processing and face matching. It will return a Jason type of string which includes the degree of confidence of the given images. This kind of solution will have a much better performance and higher speed. However, it will have stable access to the api server. The condition of the Internet will have effect on the performance of the whole system.
The final output of our face recognition is that Face++ will analyze and detect the pictures we upload and feed back some statistics, such as the name and the GWid to us.
6. Data analysis and experimental work
There are three major algorithms including Eignfaces, Fisherfaces, Local binary patter histograms in Opencv used to realize face recognition. The major problem with image is how to select the constituent of the two-dimensional images, Karl Pearson (1901) and Harold
Hotelling (1933) found the Principal Component Analysis (PCA) to build a set of set of uncorrelated variables instead of correlated variables so that it can find the most informant variance among many meaningless variables.
